[Music]
all right you smartypants sleuths here
are 10 riddles and short detective
stories to test your logic if you're
looking for a fun and engaging activity
that will also be useful for your brain
then look no further here's a collection
of 10 fine riddles and detective stories
with a twist to give the whole family a
proper mental workout riddles invented
back in the days of Babylon can improve
your vocabulary and even help older
people avoid dementia do you need any
further reasons to solve them all now
before you turn on your Sherlock mode
take a second to subscribe to the bright
side of life to be the first to get all
our awesome updates now that we're all
set let's get down to business number
one which door is safe some of our
choices like what kind of coffee to get
can make or ruin just one day of our
lives
others like which door to choose to
escape from danger are a little bit more
life changing so here's a riddle about
one of the latter one morning little
Mary was trapped in a castle in Costa
Rica there were four doors but only one
led to freedom the doors opened up to
the following one lava that would
immediately melt anyone to a killer
Klown that would beat any person to
death this guy looks like he just broke
free from the set of it
yikes three a deadly frost that would
freeze her at once a door to Siberia
perhaps
for cops that would immediately shoot
any man or woman indiscriminately which
door should you choose all right we'll
give you ten seconds to think it over
you better give it all you got Mary's
life depends on it you know here comes
the answer Mary should pick door number
four while shooting cops don't sound
like much fun pay attention to the
wording of this option the cops would
shoot any man or woman but Mary isn't an
adult
[Music]
number two the eiffel tower millions of
tourists from all over the world dream
of visiting the Eiffel Tower taking
pictures in front of it giving them
hashtags hashtag Paris hashtag travel
and even getting well-deserved likes
Kati Mamba song would never have taken a
selfie with that construction in the
back
even if selfies had been a thing in his
lifetime why because he hated the Eiffel
Tower every day he had lunch in the one
place where it couldn't be seen what was
that place use all your knowledge of the
French capital to name that secret
location
[Music]
[Applause]
time's up are you ready the answer is
pure genius he ate in the restaurant
located at the base of the tower he
couldn't see the tower from there get it
number three a murder in the Sun it's
getting hot in here four friends
regularly visited the sauna together
they always brought something with them
Jack a musician took an iPod with him to
listen to music Steve a banker took a
thermos to drink from Patrick and
Michael were lawyers and took documents
to read one day
Patrick was found dead he was killed by
a sharp object the police came
immediately and conducted an
investigation they found nothing can you
give the police a helping hand or rather
your sharp mind and explain how this
could have happened you've got 10
seconds for the task
Patrick was killed by Steve who brought
an ice shard in his thermos the murder
weapon had melted by the time the cops
arrived how clever and cruel of him
number four an angry wife Pete called
his wife and said he'd be home at 8:00
he arrived at 8:05 they had no special
plans but his wife was still angry that
he was late you better not mess with an
angry wife you know can you guess why
she was so mad time's up the answer is
pretty simple there are two eight
o'clock Sevareid a peach should have
returned at 8:00 p.m. but he came home
at 8:05 a.m. the next day
huh no wonder she got so mad number five
a fly in the coffee
Brenden sat in the coffee shop and found
a fly in his drink Oh disgusting
he asked the waitress to bring him
another coffee after receiving the new
cup and taking a sip he became angry
Brendan realized that it was the same
cup of coffee that he had had in the
first place how did he know that it was
the same cup of coffee maybe he was a
coffee expert able to identify even the
slightest difference in taste well in
fact it doesn't take a coffee expert to
get this one right
the second coffee was already sweetened
Brendan had put sugar in his first cup
before finding the fly number six a
broken statuette John was alone at home
and heard something fall in his wife's
room he entered and saw that her
favorite statuette was broken at that
moment someone ran out of the room John
tried to catch up with a stranger went
outside the lenses on his glasses fogged
up because of the cold weather he could
see nothing giving the stranger the
opportunity to disappear John told this
story to a policeman but he refused to
investigate the case the cop asked him
to stop lying and admit that he had
broken the statue was John's story
actually fake or was the policeman too
lazy to start a proper investigation
we'll give you ten seconds to figure it
out
[Music]
the truth is that John story was fake
after all John ran out into the street
while chasing a stranger but eyeglass
lenses don't fog up when a person comes
out of a warm room and into the cold he
was just afraid to confess to his wife
that he had broken her favourite
statuette let's move on to more serious
stuff you've got a murder to investigate
[Music]
number seven mr. James is dead mr. James
was found dead in Israel the room had no
window and the door was locked
the only for people who had a key to the
room were questioned Sofia the maid said
I came to wake up mr. James when I saw
him dead I screamed John the butler
claimed that when I heard the scream I
ran into the room turned on the light
and saw mr. James with a knife in his
neck Sara the governess told us the
following I rushed up alongside John
when he turned on the light the room was
all bloody finally Jack the cook
reassured us that I was prepping
breakfast and didn't see anything so it
looks like all the suspects have an
alibi or do that
can you guess who killed mr. James we'll
give you ten seconds as per usual
[Music]
it was Sophia if the room was dark she
couldn't have seen mr. James lying there
unless she already knew it
number II a familiar stranger Stan met a
stranger he'd never seen before Stan had
heard about him but no descriptions of
his appearance were ever mentioned he
wasn't famous nevertheless Stan
understood immediately who the guy was
hmm how is this possible you've got 10
seconds to unveil the mystery well some
people just look more alike than others
the guy Stan met was the twin brother of
one of his friends number 9 a closed car
a man was shot in a car there were no
traces of gunpowder on his clothes that
meant that the murderer wasn't inside
the car when he shot him there were no
bullet holes in the car
in addition all of the doors and windows
were closed how could they have killed
him we give you 10 seconds to find the
answer
so did you manage to crack this riddle
the man was in a convertible
the murderer shot him and then closed
the roof number 10 a key to treasure
an adventurer found a treasure chest in
a cave that was guarded by a pirate he
had three keys gold silver and black but
only one of them could open the chest
the pirate would give the adventurer
only one chance to reach the treasure if
he chose the right key he would take the
chest if he chose incorrectly the pirate
would kill him right there the only clue
was this cipher TGK h OE e ly d e m
which is the right key try to figure it
out someone's life depends on it you
know
[Music]
now that you're 10 seconds are up we
still won't give you the answer you've
been waiting for me and yeah hey this is
actually a bonus keeping the answer to
ourselves is the answer to the bonus
question how do you frustrate bright
ciders now really I just made that up so
shoot me
so how about you share your solution to
the last riddle in the comments instead
did you manage to solve all the riddles
tell us in the comments and don't forget
to give us a like forgive me for that
last thing and click subscribe to stay
on the bright side of life